.Dd $Mdocdate: August 10 2024 $
.Dt RECORDCTL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm recordctl
.Nd enable and disable kernel audio or video recording
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Bk -words
.Op Fl mqt
.Op Fl a Ar state
.Op Fl v Ar state
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The 
.Nm
utility provides a convenient way to enable, disable, or toggle audio and/or video recording in the kernel by setting the 
.Cm kern.audio.record
and 
.Cm kern.video.record
.Xr sysctl 8
variables respectively.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a Ar state
Set the 
.Cm kern.audio.record
.Xr sysctl 8
variable to state.
.It Fl m
Monitor and display recording state changes.
(This feature is not yet implemented.)
.It Fl q
Suppress all output when setting a 
.Xr sysctl 8
variable.
.It Fl t
Toggle the value of 
.Xr sysctl 8
variables to their opposite state instead of setting an explicit value.
.It Fl v Ar state
Set the 
.Cm kern.video.record
.Xr sysctl 8
variable to state.
.El
.Pp
If no commands are specified, both 
.Cm kern.audio.record 
and 
.Cm kern.video.record 
.Xr sysctl 8
variable values are toggled to their opposite state (0 -> 1 or 1 -> 0) and the names and values are displayed on
.Em stdout .
.Pp
State values can be either 0 or 1, corresponding to the 
.Em off
and
.Em on
states respectively. Additionally, state values of "no", 
"off", or "disable" will be converted to a value of 0 (corresponding
to the 
.Em off
 state) and state values of "yes", "on", or "enable" will be 
converted to a value of 1 (corresponding to the 
.Em on
state.) This is purely for convenience.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Toggle both audio and video recording:
.Pp
.Dl # recordctl
.Pp
Enable only audio recording and supress output:
.Pp
.Dl # recordctl -qa 0
.Pp
Toggle only video recording:
.Pp
.Dl # recordctl -tv
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sysctl 8
